
# Big Data and Privacy
Yeyi Ma | Email: yeyima@umail.iu.edu | Hid: Fa18-523-74

## Abstract
This paper explores big data as a smart technological aggregate of database technologies utilized at the software and hardware levels. The paper reviews the origin of big data and its current status in the business, technology, and governmental circles. In the academic theory, the writer reviews the requirements of big data technology, the architecture, and the implementation of the same. The paper also studies the benchmarks that have been developed in order to standardize big data. It is revealed that the technology is relatively young to employ most of these benchmarks. In respect to privacy, big data poses a major threat to peoples entitlement to confidential data by design. As such, it is necessary that big data is regulated. 

## Introduction
Big data refers to the study and the application of complex data sets in application software and hardware. Big data is associated with certain qualities of data such as variety, velocity, volume, veracity, and value. The computer and information age has made big data even more practical and relevant in processing information. Today, big data entails the use of computerized systems which execute predictive analytics and user behavior analytics. These analytics extract value from data sets. Most processed data is available in large volumes. However, that is not a huge problem when working with big data. To computer systems, processing a single record will take the fraction of a second. Processing a million records will not take a million seconds. Instead, it might take a few extra seconds. Modern computer systems utilize economies of scale in a manner that cannot be replicated in any other domain. 
The most important characteristic of big data is that it analyses large data sets in a manner that is intuitive. This explains why big data has become so popular in nearly every field in the society: government, internet search, fin-tech, business informatics, urban informatics, medicine, and travel. Big data poses a threat to privacy since the end user does not have the centralized infrastructure required to make it work flawlessly. There is always a billion-dollar company out there with access to individuals’ private information for every smart device out there.  
